## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS02 OBS |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1020039   |
| Summary     | Are the OBS levels contiguous in the OBS hierarchy? |
| Error message | OBS level is not contiguous with prior levels in the OBS hierarchy. |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "OBS Levels Not Contiguous" is designed to ensure that the levels in the OBS (Organizational Breakdown Structure) hierarchy in the DS02 OBS table are contiguous. This means that each level in the hierarchy should follow sequentially from the previous one without any gaps.

If an error message "OBS level is not contiguous with prior levels in the OBS hierarchy" is received, it indicates that there is a discrepancy in the sequence of the OBS levels. This could be due to an issue with the 'level' field in the DS02 OBS table. For instance, if a level 3 follows directly after a level 1, it would trigger this error as level 2 is missing in the sequence.

To resolve this issue, ensure that each OBS level follows sequentially from the previous one. For example, a level 1 should be followed by a level 2, then a level 3, and so on, without any gaps in the sequence.
## Why do we check this?


This test is being performed to ensure that the Organizational Breakdown Structure (OBS) levels in the DS02 OBS table are contiguous in the hierarchy. The OBS is a hierarchical arrangement of an organization's structure and it is crucial for project management as it helps in understanding the organization's framework, assigning responsibilities, and managing costs and schedules.

The severity of this test is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity. This means that if the OBS levels are not contiguous, it could lead to significant issues in the data that need to be fixed immediately. If not corrected, it could disrupt the analysis and interpretation of the data, leading to potential inaccuracies in project management decisions.

The importance of this check lies in ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the data. A non-contiguous OBS could lead to confusion in assigning responsibilities, managing costs, and scheduling, which could negatively impact the overall project management. Therefore, maintaining data integrity and quality through this check is crucial for effective and efficient project management.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS02_OBS_AreOBSLevelsNonContiguous] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
    --Insert statements for procedure here
	SELECT 
		Child.*
	FROM 
		DS02_OBS Child INNER JOIN DS02_OBS Parent ON Child.parent_OBS_ID = parent.OBS_ID
	WHERE 
			Child.upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND parent.upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND parent.level <> Child.level - 1
)
```
