# Schedule EU Justification Missing

## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS18 Sched EU |
| Severity    | MINOR |
| Unique ID   | 1180585   |
| Summary     | Is the EU justification missing to explain why the min EU days equal the likely, the likely equal the max, or the min equal the max? |
| Error message | justification_EU is missing or blank & EU_min_days = EU_likely_days, EU_likely_days = EU_max_days, or EU_max_days = EU_min_days. |

## What causes this error?

The test 'Schedule EU Justification Missing' is attempting to identify any instances in the DS18 Sched EU table where the estimation uncertainty (EU) justification might be missing. This is important because a justification should be provided anytime we have an estimation uncertainty (EU) value where the 'min days' is equal to the 'likely days', the 'likely days' is equal to the 'max days', or the 'max days' is equal to the 'min days'. 

The error is occurring likely because there are instances in the table entries where:
- the field 'justification_EU' is either missing or blank, and
- the 'EU_min_days' equals 'EU_likely_days' or 'EU_likely_days' equals 'EU_max_days' or 'EU_max_days' equals 'EU_min_days'.

The acceptable values would have the 'justification_EU' field filled in with a proper explanation for why these EU days values ('min', 'likely', 'max') are equal. In other words, any entries where the 'EU_min_days', 'EU_likely_days', and 'EU_max_days' fields are equal, the 'justification_EU' field should have a relevant explanation text and must not be left blank or null. 

It's necessary to review the entries that fail this data quality check and provide a valid justification as to why the estimation uncertainty days are equal to ensure data integrity and quality.
## Why do we check this?

Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) checks are crucial for ensuring the accuracy, consistency, and reliability of data over its entire lifecycle. This specific DIQ check on the 'DS18 Sched EU' table, entitled 'Schedule EU Justification Missing', is intended to verify completeness of critical project parameters - Expected (EU) Min, Likely, and Max days, and their accompanying Justifications. 

Compliance with DOE Order 413.3B, Program and Project Management for the Acquisition of Capital Assets is critical to ensure that investments are executed in a disciplined, well-managed, and consistent manner. This DIQ check aligns with this order by ensuring adequate justification has been provided.

The check is crucial because if the EU justification is missing or left blank, the reasons behind assigning same values for the EU min, likely and max days would be unclear. This could lead to error in decision-making process as these values directly impact cost, resource allocation, and scheduling on the project.

In accordance with the guidelines stipulated by DOE Order 413.3B, inadequate cost and schedule risk analyses can lead to underestimation of a project's complexity, which can result in inaccurate cost projections and project delays. Therefore, ensuring that the correct justifications are included is a crucial part of ensuring the integrity of the data and the ultimate success of the project.

In instances where justification is missing or these vital parameters equate, indicating a lack of variation/risk consideration, it could be a sign of improper planning or dataset errors, which necessitates immediate investigation for issue correction and avoiding possible risk to the project. 

Hence, it is essential that the DIQ check is in place to signal an 'MINOR' upon identifying such issues, allowing prompt rectification to maintain the project on the right course.
## How can I fix this in my source data system

The 'Schedule EU Justification Missing' DIQ test is performed on the 'DS18 Sched EU' table to ensure that appropriate justification is provided where necessary.

The test triggers an alert when the following conditions are met:
1. The 'EU_min_days' equals 'EU_likely_days'
2. The 'EU_likely_days' equals 'EU_max_days' 
3. The 'EU_max_days' equals 'EU_min_days' 

If any one of these conditions are met, a justification needs to be provided in the 'justification_EU' field. If such a condition is met and the 'justification_EU' field is missing or blank, then the test is failed.

Follow the below steps to rectify the issue in Deltek Cobra:

1. Open Deltek Cobra and navigate to the 'DS18 Sched EU' table in your project.
2. Look for the rows where 'EU_min_days' equals 'EU_likely_days' or 'EU_likely_days' equals 'EU_max_days' or 'EU_max_days' equals 'EU_min_days'.
3. On those rows, verify if the 'justification_EU' field is empty or contains a value.
4. If the 'justification_EU' field is empty, input the necessary justification explaining why the 'EU_min_days', 'EU_likely_days', and 'EU_max_days' are equal.
5. After entering the justification, save your changes in the table.

To identify the particular records failing the DIQ test, refer to the PARS DIQ Reports. This report displays the rows of data that fail the DIQ check and provide further detailed information to assist your correction efforts.

Remember, providing adequate justification is crucial to maintain data integrity in project management. Hence, ensure that no such conditions exist without accurate 'justification_EU' details in the 'DS18 Sched EU' data table.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS18_Sched_EU_IsEUJustificationMissing] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT 
		*
	FROM 
		DS18_schedule_EU
	WHERE 
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND (
			EU_min_days = EU_likely_days OR 
			EU_likely_days = EU_max_days OR 
			EU_max_days = EU_min_days) 
		AND TRIM(ISNULL(justification_EU,'')) = ''
)
```
