## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS07 IPMR Header |
| Severity    | ALERT |
| Unique ID   | 1070337   |
| Summary     | Is there MR reprogramming? |
| Error message | MR_rpg <> 0. |

## What causes this error?

> :robot: The following text was generated by an AI tool and hasn't been reviewed for accuracy by a human! It might be useful, but it also might have errors. Are you a human? You can help by reviewing it for accuracy! Edit it as needed then remove this message.
{.is-warning}

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "MR Reprogramming" is performed on the DS07 IPMR Header table. This check is designed to identify if there is any Management Reserve (MR) reprogramming in the project data.

The error message "MR_rpg <> 0" indicates that the MR reprogramming dollars (MR_rpg_dollars) field in the DS07 IPMR Header table is not equal to zero. This suggests that there has been some reprogramming of the management reserve, which may not be expected or allowed in certain circumstances.

The likely cause of this error is that the MR_rpg_dollars field has been populated with a non-zero value, indicating that some amount of the management reserve has been reprogrammed. The expected value for this field, in the absence of any reprogramming, would be zero.

To resolve this issue, you should review the data in the MR_rpg_dollars field for any unexpected or incorrect values. If any reprogramming of the management reserve was not intended or is not permitted, the relevant data entries will need to be corrected.
## Why do we check this?

> :robot: The following text was generated by an AI tool and hasn't been reviewed for accuracy by a human! It might be useful, but it also might have errors. Are you a human? You can help by reviewing it for accuracy! Edit it as needed then remove this message.
{.is-warning}

This test is being performed on the 'DS07 IPMR Header' table to check for any Management Reserve (MR) reprogramming. The test is checking if the value of 'MR_rpg' is not equal to zero, which would indicate that there has been some reprogramming. 

The importance of this check is to ensure that any changes in the management reserve are properly tracked and accounted for. This is crucial for maintaining accurate and up-to-date project management data. 

The severity of this test is marked as 'ALERT', which means it is of less severity. However, it indicates that there might be minor problems or that the data doesn't follow all best practices. If the test fails, it doesn't necessarily mean the data can't be reviewed, but it might cause minor issues during analysis or indicate potential areas for improvement in data management.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS07_IPMR_DoesMRRpgExist] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT 
		*
	FROM
		DS07_IPMR_header
	WHERE
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND MR_rpg_dollars <> 0
)
```
