## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS03 Cost |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 9030062   |
| Summary     | Does this CA have budget? |
| Error message | CA found with BCWSi > 0 (Dollars, Hours, or FTEs). |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "CA with Budget" is designed to verify if a Control Account (CA) has an associated budget. This check is performed on the DS03 Cost table.

The test identifies any Control Account (CA) that has a budget greater than zero in either dollars, hours, or Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs). A CA is indicated by the WBS_ID_WP field being empty. 

The error message "CA found with BCWSi > 0 (Dollars, Hours, or FTEs)" is displayed when a CA is found with a budget. This could be due to a data entry error or a missing link between the CA and WP in the project management system.

The fields causing this issue are WBS_ID_CA, BCWSi_dollars, BCWSi_FTEs, and BCWSi_hours in the DS03 Cost table.

To resolve this issue, review and address each CA with a budget to include checking the project management system and correcting any missing links or data entry errors.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to ensure that every Control Account (CA) in the DS03 Cost table does not have an associated budget (BCWS). The test checks for any Control Account with a Budgeted Cost of Work Scheduled (BCWSi) greater than zero, which indicates that there is a budget allocated for that CA. 

The importance of this check is to ensure that all work is properly budgeted. If budgets are not properly aligned with work, it could lead to overspending or misallocation of resources, which could negatively impact the overall project. 

The severity of this check is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity. This means that if a Control Account is found with a budget, it is a critical issue that must be fixed before the data can be reviewed. This is because a budget for a Control Account could significantly distort the financial analysis of the project.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS03_Cost_DoesCAHaveBCWS] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	SELECT 
		* 
	FROM 
		DS03_Cost
	WHERE
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND TRIM(ISNULL(WBS_ID_WP,'')) = ''
		AND (BCWSi_dollars > 0 OR BCWSi_FTEs > 0 OR BCWSi_hours > 0)
		AND WBS_ID_CA IN (
			SELECT WBS_ID
			FROM DS01_WBS
			WHERE upload_ID = @upload_ID AND type = 'CA'
		)
)
```
