## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS05 Schedule Logic |
| Severity    | MAJOR |
| Unique ID   | 1050232   |
| Summary     | Is the lag for this task less than zero, i.e. a lead? |
| Error message | Lag_days < 0. |

## What causes this error?



The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check for the 'DS05 Schedule Logic' table is designed to identify any instances where the 'lag_days' field is less than zero. This check is important because a negative value in the 'lag_days' field indicates a lead time, which is not expected in this context.

A lead time, in project management, refers to a situation where a task can start before its predecessor is completed. However, in the context of the 'DS05 Schedule Logic' table, this is not expected. The 'lag_days' field should ideally contain positive values or zero, indicating the delay or lag time between tasks.

If the DIQ check identifies any records where 'lag_days' is less than zero, this indicates an error in the data. The error could be due to incorrect data entry or a problem with the data source. It is recommended to review these records and correct the 'lag_days' field to ensure data integrity and quality.
## Why do we check this?


This test is being performed on the 'DS05 Schedule Logic' table to check for instances where the lag for a task is less than zero, also known as a lead. In project management, a lead refers to a situation where a task can start before the preceding task is fully completed. This test is important because having a negative lag (or lead) can cause scheduling issues and may not accurately reflect the true timeline of the project. 

The severity of this test is marked as a 'MAJOR', which means that while it may not prevent the data from being reviewed, it is likely to cause problems during analysis. It is crucial to address these warnings to ensure accurate project scheduling and effective project management.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS05_Logic_IsLead] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT
		*
	FROM
		DS05_schedule_logic
	WHERE
			upload_id = @upload_ID
		AND lag_days < 0
)
```
