## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS06 Resources |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1060248   |
| Summary     | Is this resource missing a name? |
| Error message | Resource found without a resource name (resource_name = null or blank). |

## What causes this error?



The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "Resource Missing Name" is designed to identify any instances in the DS06 Resources table where a resource is missing a name. This check is important because each resource should have a unique and identifiable name for proper tracking and management.

The error message "Resource found without a resource name (resource_name = null or blank)" indicates that there are entries in the DS06 Resources table where the 'resource_name' field is either null or blank. This is likely due to missing data during the data entry process or a system error that failed to capture the resource name.

The 'resource_name' field should contain a valid name for each resource. If this field is blank or null, it can lead to confusion and mismanagement of resources. Therefore, it is crucial to ensure that each resource has a valid name entered in the 'resource_name' field. 

To resolve this issue, review the entries in the DS06 Resources table and ensure that each resource has a valid name. If a resource name is missing, it should be added to the 'resource_name' field. If the issue persists, it may be necessary to investigate the data entry process or system for potential errors.
## Why do we check this?



This test is being performed to ensure that all resources in the 'DS06 Resources' table have a corresponding name. The test checks if there are any resources where the 'resource_name' field is null or blank, which would indicate that the resource is missing a name. 

The importance of this check is high, as indicated by the severity level of 'CRITICAL'. This means that if a resource is found without a name, it is a critical issue that must be fixed before the data can be reviewed. Resource names are crucial for identifying and tracking resources in the EVMS construction project management data. Without a resource name, it would be difficult to manage and allocate resources effectively, which could lead to significant problems in project management and execution.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS06_Res_IsResourceMissingName] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT
		*
	FROM
		DS06_schedule_resources
	WHERE
			upload_id = @upload_ID
		AND TRIM(ISNULL(resource_ID,'')) <> ''
		AND TRIM(ISNULL(resource_name,'')) = ''
)
```
