## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS06 Resources |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1060254   |
| Summary     | Is either the BL or FC schedule missing resources? |
| Error message | Zero resource rows found for either the BL or FC schedule (schedule_type = BL or FC). |

## What causes this error?



The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "Schedule Missing Resources" is designed to ensure that each schedule in the DS06 Resources table, whether it's a Baseline (BL) or Forecast (FC) schedule, has associated resource rows. 

If this DIQ check fails, it means that there are zero resource rows found for either the BL or FC schedule. This could be due to an error in data entry, where resources were not assigned to a schedule, or it could be a result of a data import issue where the resource data for a schedule was not correctly imported into the DS06 Resources table.

To resolve this issue, you should ensure that each BL and FC schedule in the DS06 Resources table has at least one associated resource row. This can be done by reviewing the data entry process or the data import process to identify where the error occurred and then correcting it. 

Remember, the integrity and quality of your project management data is crucial for accurate and effective project management. Therefore, it's important to regularly perform DIQ checks and promptly address any issues that are identified.
## Why do we check this?



This test, titled "Schedule Missing Resources," is being performed on the 'DS06 Resources' table to check if either the Baseline (BL) or Forecast (FC) schedule is missing resources. The severity of this test is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity, indicating that this issue must be resolved before the data can be reviewed or used for further analysis.

The importance of this check lies in ensuring that all necessary resources are accounted for in both the Baseline and Forecast schedules. Resources are critical components in project management as they represent the workforce, equipment, materials, or anything else required to carry out the tasks in a project. If resources are missing from the schedules, it could lead to inaccurate project planning, budgeting, and execution. Therefore, this check is crucial for maintaining the integrity and quality of the EVMS construction project management data.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS06_Res_IsScheduleMissingResources] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
  with Res as (
    SELECT DISTINCT schedule_type
    FROM DS06_schedule_resources
    WHERE upload_ID = @upload_id
  )
	SELECT 
      * 
  FROM 
      DummyRow_Get(@upload_ID)	
  WHERE
		(SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Res WHERE schedule_type = 'BL') = 0 OR
		(SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Res WHERE schedule_type = 'FC') = 0
)
```
