## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS01 WBS |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1010032   |
| Summary     | Is the WBS ID repeated across the WBS hierarchy? |
| Error message | WBS ID is not unique across the WBS hierarchy. |

## What causes this error?


The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "WBS ID Not Unique" is designed to ensure that each Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) ID in the DS01 WBS table is unique. The WBS ID is a critical field that should be unique to each entry in the WBS hierarchy. 

If this DIQ check fails, it indicates that there are duplicate WBS IDs present in the DS01 WBS table. This could be due to a data entry error, a system error during data import, or a mistake in the data source. 

To resolve this issue, you should review the WBS IDs in your data source to ensure that each ID is unique and correct any duplicates.

## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to ensure that each Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) ID in the 'DS01 WBS' table is unique. The Work Breakdown Structure is a key project deliverable that organizes the team's work into manageable sections. The uniqueness of the WBS ID is crucial as it helps in identifying each section or task in the project distinctly. 

The severity of this test is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity. This means that if the WBS ID is not unique, it could lead to significant issues such as confusion in task assignment, difficulty in tracking project progress, and potential duplication of work. Therefore, this issue must be fixed before the data can be reviewed or used for further project management activities. 

## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS01_WBS_PK] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
    -- Insert statements for procedure here
	SELECT 
		* 
	FROM 
		DS01_WBS 
	WHERE 
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND DS01_WBS.WBS_ID IN (
			SELECT WBS_ID 
			FROM DS01_WBS 
			WHERE upload_ID = @upload_ID 
			GROUP BY WBS_ID 
			HAVING COUNT(WBS_ID) > 1
		)
)
```
