## Basic Information

| Key           | Value                                                                                           |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Table         | DS01 WBS                                                                                        |
| Severity      | WARNING                                                                                         |
| Unique ID     | 1010018                                                                                         |
| Summary       | Is the Exit Criteria missing?                                                                   |
| Error message | exit_criteria required where type = CA or SLPP. Provide if available for type = WBS, WP, or PP. |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "Exit Criteria Missing" is designed to identify any instances in the DS01 WBS table where the Exit Criteria field is either empty or not provided.

The Exit Criteria field is crucial for project management as it defines the conditions that must be met before a project or a phase of a project can be considered complete. If this field is missing or empty, it can lead to ambiguity and confusion about when a project or phase is officially finished.

The DIQ check scans the DS01 WBS table and flags any records where the Exit Criteria field is either null or contains only whitespace characters. This means that the field has not been properly filled out during data entry.

To resolve this issue, ensure that the Exit Criteria field is filled out for every record in the DS01 WBS table. The expected value for this field would be a clear and concise description of the conditions that signify the completion of a project or phase.

## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to check if the 'Exit Criteria' is missing in the 'DS01 WBS' table. The 'Exit Criteria' is a crucial component in project management as it defines the conditions that must be met before project tasks are considered complete. It provides a clear end-point, or 'exit', for each task or phase, ensuring that no critical steps are overlooked: the defintion of done.

The severity of this test is marked as 'WARNING', which implies that the absence of 'Exit Criteria' is likely to cause problems during the analysis of the project data. It may not halt the review process entirely, but it could lead to misunderstandings or misinterpretations of the project's progress and completion status. Therefore, it's important to address this issue to maintain the integrity and quality of the EVMS construction project management data.

## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS01_WBS_IsExitCriteriaMissing] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	SELECT
		*
	FROM
		DS01_WBS
	WHERE
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND TRIM(ISNULL(exit_criteria,''))=''
)
```

### Changelog

| Date       | Description of Changes                                                                                                  |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 2024-04-30 | Logic adjusted to simplify the condition for checking empty or null exit_criteria by using a more streamlined approach. |
