## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS01 WBS |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1010017   |
| Summary     | Does the Control Account or WBS Type have a child in the WBS hierarchy? |
| Error message | CA or WBS element missing child. |

## What causes this error?

This DIQ is designed to ensure that every Control Account (CA) or Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) element in the DS01 WBS table has a corresponding child element in the WBS hierarchy. 

The error message "CA or WBS element missing child" indicates that there are certain CA or WBS elements that do not have a corresponding child element. This could be due to missing or incorrect entries in the 'parent_WBS_ID' field of the DS01 WBS table. 

In a well-structured WBS hierarchy, every CA or WBS element should have at least one child element. The absence of a child element could lead to gaps in the project management data, making it difficult to track the progress and performance of the project.

To resolve this issue, you should review the entries in the 'type' and 'WBS_ID' fields of the DS01 WBS table. Ensure that every CA or WBS element listed in the 'WBS_ID' field has a corresponding entry in the 'parent_WBS_ID' field. This will ensure that every element in the WBS hierarchy is properly linked, thereby maintaining the integrity and quality of the project management data.
## Why do we check this?


This test is being performed to ensure that every Control Account (CA) or Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) type has a corresponding child in the WBS hierarchy. The Work Breakdown Structure is a key project deliverable that organizes the team's work into manageable sections. The lack of a child for a CA or WBS type could indicate a missing piece of work or an error in the data structure.

The severity of this test is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity. This means that if this issue is not resolved, the data cannot be reviewed or analyzed. It is crucial to fix this error to maintain the integrity and quality of the EVMS construction project management data. This check is important because it ensures that all tasks and subtasks are properly accounted for in the WBS, which is essential for accurate project planning, tracking, and control.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS01_WBS_IsCAOrWBSElementMissingChild] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
  --looks for CA or WBS elements that do not have a child
  --check is simply looking for WBS_IDs not found in the parent_WBS_ID column
	SELECT 
		* 
	FROM 
		DS01_WBS
	WHERE 
			  upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND [type] IN ('CA','WBS')
		AND WBS_ID NOT IN (
      SELECT ISNULL(parent_WBS_ID,'')
      FROM DS01_WBS
      WHERE upload_ID = @upload_ID
    )
)
```
