## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS01 WBS |
| Severity    | MAJOR |
| Unique ID   | 1010021   |
| Summary     | Is the narrative only one word? |
| Error message | Narrative is only one word. |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "Insufficient WBS Narrative" is designed to ensure that the narrative field in the DS01 WBS table contains more than one word. This check is important because a single-word narrative may not provide sufficient information for effective project management.

If this DIQ check fails, it means that there are entries in the narrative field of the DS01 WBS table that contain only one word. This could be due to a data entry error or insufficient information provided during data input.

To resolve this issue, review the narrative field entries in the DS01 WBS table and ensure that they contain more than one word. The narratives should be descriptive and provide enough information for effective project management.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to check the quality and completeness of the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) narrative in the DS01 WBS table. The Work Breakdown Structure is a key project deliverable that organizes the team's work into manageable sections. The narrative provides a detailed description of scope, and if it is only one word, it may not provide enough information for proper understanding and management of the project.

The severity of this test is marked as a MAJOR, which means that while it may not prevent the data from being reviewed, it is likely to cause problems during analysis. This is because a one-word narrative may not provide enough context or detail for accurate interpretation and could lead to misunderstandings or misinterpretations of the project's scope and tasks.

Therefore, this check is important to ensure that the WBS narrative is sufficiently detailed to support effective project management and accurate data analysis. It helps maintain the integrity and quality of the project management data by ensuring that all necessary information is included and clearly communicated.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS01_WBS_IsNarrativeInsufficient] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
    -- Insert statements for procedure here
	SELECT 
		* 
	FROM 
		DS01_WBS
	WHERE 
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
    AND narrative IS NOT NULL
		AND CHARINDEX(' ',TRIM([narrative])) = 0
)
```
