## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS01 WBS |
| Severity    | MAJOR |
| Unique ID   | 1010022   |
| Summary     | Is the OBS_ID null or blank? |
| Error message | OBS ID is missing |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "OBS ID Missing" is designed to identify any instances where the OBS_ID field in the DS01 WBS table is either null or blank. This field is crucial as it provides a unique OBS identifier for each record in the table. 

If the DIQ check returns any records, it indicates that there are entries in the DS01 WBS table that do not have an OBS_ID. This could be due to a data entry error, a system error during data import, or missing information in the original data source. 

The expected value for the OBS_ID field is a unique identifier for each record. It should not be null or blank. If the DIQ check identifies any records without an OBS_ID, these records will need to be reviewed and corrected to ensure data integrity and quality.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to check if the OBS_ID (Organizational Breakdown Structure ID) in the DS01 WBS (Work Breakdown Structure) table is null or blank. The OBS_ID is crucial as it provides a hierarchical arrangement of an organization's work packages, which helps in effective project management and control. 

The severity of this test is marked as a MAJOR, which implies that if the OBS_ID is missing, it is likely to cause problems during the analysis of the project data. It may lead to difficulties in tracking the progress of work packages, resource allocation, and cost control, among other things. The OBS is used by the project management team and/or project management team leader in a hierarchal manner for the purposes of conducting and creating a thorough and clearly delineated depiction of the project organization for the purposes of the identification of responsibility within the project. The CAM is typically the lowest level of the OBS. The OBS should be established at the onset of the project to help in the purposes of organization; however, it is possible to conduct this in an ongoing basis.

Therefore, this check is important to ensure the completeness and accuracy of the EVMS (Earned Value Management System) construction project management data. It helps in maintaining the integrity of the data and ensures that all necessary information is available for effective project management and control.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS01_WBS_IsOBSIDMissing] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
    -- Insert statements for procedure here
	SELECT 
		* 
	FROM 
		DS01_WBS
	WHERE 
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND TRIM(ISNULL(OBS_ID,''))=''
)
```
