## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS01 WBS |
| Severity    | MAJOR |
| Unique ID   | 1010028   |
| Summary     | Is the PM name inconsistent for SLPPs and high-level WBSs? |
| Error message | The CAM name for SLPPs and high-level WBSs is not consistent. (Note: At high levels, the value in the CAM field should represent the PM.) |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "PM Name Inconsistent" is designed to ensure that the Project Manager (PM) name is consistent for both SLPPs and high-level WBSs in the DS01 WBS table. 

The inconsistency error is likely to occur when the name in the CAM field for SLPPs and high-level WBSs does not match. At high-level WBSs, above the CA, the value in the CAM field should represent the PM. 

The fields causing the issue are the WBS_ID, CAM, and Level fields. The WBS_ID field filters for WBS or SLPP. For SLPPs and high-level WBSs, CAM field should contain the name of the PM, and the Level field indicates the hierarchical level of the WBS or SLPP.

For this DIQ the expected values for these fields are as follows: The WBS_ID should be a unique identifier for each WBS or SLPP. The CAM field should contain the name of the PM, and this name should be consistent across all SLPPs and high-level WBSs. The Level field should correctly reflect the hierarchical level of the WBS or SLPP, with Level 1 representing the highest level.

If the DIQ check identifies inconsistencies in the PM name across SLPPs and high-level WBSs, it is recommended to review and correct the data in the CAM field to ensure data integrity and quality.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to ensure the consistency of the Project Manager (PM) name for Summary Level Planning Packages (SLPPs) and high-level Work Breakdown Structures (WBSs). The test checks if the name in the CAM field for these elements is consistent, as at high levels, the CAM field should represent the PM. 

The importance of this check lies in maintaining data integrity and accuracy. Inconsistent names can lead to confusion and miscommunication regarding roles and responsibilities. It can also hinder the tracking of project progress. 

The severity level is marked as a MAJOR, which means that while it may not prevent the data from being reviewed, it is likely to cause problems during analysis. Therefore, it is recommended to address this issue to ensure smooth project management and accurate data analysis.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS01_WBS_IsPMNameInconsistent] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	with ToTest as (
		SELECT *
		FROM AncestryTree_Get(@upload_ID)
		WHERE [type] IN ('SLPP', 'WBS')
	), 
	
	Flags as (
		SELECT 
			WBS_ID
		FROM
			DS01_WBS
		WHERE
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND WBS_ID IN (SELECT WBS_ID FROM ToTest WHERE Ancestor_Level = 1 AND CAM <> Ancestor_CAM)
		AND WBS_ID NOT IN (SELECT WBS_ID FROM ToTest WHERE Ancestor_Type = 'CA' AND [type] = 'WBS')
	)
	
	SELECT 
		*
	FROM
		DS01_WBS
	WHERE
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND (
				WBS_ID IN (SELECT WBS_ID FROM Flags)
			OR (Level = 1 AND (SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Flags) > 0)
		)
)
```
