## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS01 WBS |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1010036   |
| Summary     | Is the WP or PP at Level 1 or 2 in the WBS hierarchy? |
| Error message | WP or PP at Level 1 or 2 in the WBS hierarchy |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "WP or PP At Level 1 or 2" is designed to verify the hierarchical level of Work Packages (WP) or Planning Packages (PP) in the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) data, specifically in the DS01 WBS table. 

The check is looking for entries where the 'type' field is either 'WP' or 'PP', and the 'level' field is either 1 or 2. If the check finds entries that meet these criteria, it means that there are Work Packages or Planning Packages at level 1 or 2 in the WBS hierarchy, which is not the expected structure.

The error is likely caused by incorrect data entry or structuring in the WBS. Work Packages and Planning Packages should not be at level 1 or 2 in the WBS hierarchy. They are expected to be at a higher level in the hierarchy, typically level 3 or above. 

To resolve this issue, review the entries in the DS01 WBS table and ensure that Work Packages and Planning Packages are correctly placed in the WBS hierarchy.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to ensure that the Work Packages (WP) or Planning Packages (PP) are correctly placed at Level 1 or 2 in the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) hierarchy. The WBS is a key project deliverable that organizes the team's work into manageable sections. The positioning of WP or PP at the correct level in the WBS hierarchy is crucial for accurate project planning, scheduling, and cost estimation.

The severity of this test is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity. This means that if the WP or PP are not at Level 1 or 2 in the WBS hierarchy, it is a critical issue that must be fixed immediately. If not corrected, the data cannot be reviewed further as it may lead to significant problems in project management, such as incorrect allocation of resources, inaccurate project timelines, and cost overruns.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS01_WBS_IsWPorPPAtLevelOneOrTwo] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
    --Insert statements for procedure here
	SELECT 
		*
	FROM 
		DS01_WBS
	WHERE 
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND type IN ('WP', 'PP') 
		AND level IN (1,2)
)
```
