## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS01 WBS |
| Severity    | MAJOR |
| Unique ID   | 1010015   |
| Summary     | Is the CA, WP, or PP missing a CAM? |
| Error message | CA, WP, or PP is missing a CAM name |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "CA, WP, or PP Missing CAM" is designed to identify any instances in the DS01 WBS table where a Control Account (CA), Work Package (WP), or Planning Package (PP) is missing a Control Account Manager (CAM) name. 

The error message "CA, WP, or PP is missing a CAM name" indicates that there are entries in the DS01 WBS table where the 'type' field is either 'CA', 'PP', or 'WP', but the 'CAM' field is empty. This is likely due to incomplete data entry or a data import error.

The expected values for the 'CAM' field would be the name of the Control Account Manager associated with each CA, WP, or PP. It is important to ensure that all entries in the DS01 WBS table have a CAM name associated with them to maintain data integrity and quality.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to check if the Control Account (CA), Work Package (WP), or Planning Package (PP) in the DS01 WBS (Work Breakdown Structure) table is missing a Control Account Manager (CAM) name. The Control Account Manager is responsible for overseeing the project's budget and schedule, and ensuring that the project is progressing as planned. 

The severity of this test is marked as a MAJOR, which means that while it may not prevent the data from being reviewed, it is likely to cause problems during analysis. If a CA, WP, or PP is missing a CAM, it could lead to confusion about who is responsible for managing that part of the project, which could in turn lead to delays or cost overruns. 

Therefore, this check is important because it helps to ensure that every part of the project has a designated manager, which is crucial for maintaining order and efficiency in the project management process.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS01_WBS_IsCAMMissing] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	SELECT 
		*
	FROM
		DS01_WBS
	WHERE
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND type in ('CA','PP','WP')
		AND ISNULL(CAM,'') = ''
)
```
