## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS01 WBS |
| Severity    | MAJOR |
| Unique ID   | 1010020   |
| Summary     | Are the Title and Narrative the same? |
| Error message | Narrative is not distinct from the Title (Narrative should be your scope paragraph from your WBS Dictionary) |

## What causes this error?


The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "Title Equal to Narrative" is performed on the DS01 WBS table. This check is designed to ensure that the 'Title' and 'Narrative' fields in the table are not identical. 

The 'Narrative' field should contain a detailed scope paragraph from your WBS Dictionary, providing a comprehensive description of the work to be performed. On the other hand, the 'Title' field should contain a concise summary or title of the work. If these two fields are identical, it indicates that the 'Narrative' field may not be providing the necessary detailed description, which could lead to misunderstandings or misinterpretations of the work scope.

If this DIQ check fails, it means that there are records in the DS01 WBS table where the 'Title' and 'Narrative' fields are identical. To resolve this issue, review these records and update the 'Narrative' field to provide a more detailed description of the work scope as per the WBS Dictionary.
## Why do we check this?


This test is being performed to ensure that the Title and Narrative fields in the DS01 WBS table are not identical. The importance of this check lies in the need for distinct and detailed information in both fields. The Title is typically a brief descriptor, while the Narrative should contain a more comprehensive scope paragraph from the WBS Dictionary. Having the same content in both fields could lead to a lack of necessary detail and context, which could cause problems during data analysis. The severity level is marked as a MAJOR, indicating that while this issue may not prevent the data from being reviewed, it is likely to cause problems during analysis if not addressed.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS01_WBS_IsNarrativeEqualToTitle] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
    -- Insert statements for procedure here
	SELECT 
		* 
	FROM 
		DS01_WBS
	WHERE 
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND TRIM(Title)=TRIM(Narrative)
		AND Title IS NOT NULL
)
```
