## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS04 Schedule |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1040206   |
| Summary     | Is your baseline schedule missing the approve finish project milestone? |
| Error message | No row found for approve finish project milestone (milestone_level = 199) in baseline schedule (schedule_type = BL). |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "Approve Finish Project Milestone Missing in Baseline" is designed to ensure that your baseline schedule includes the "approve finish project milestone". This check is performed on the DS04 Schedule table.

The fields causing this issue are 'milestone_level' and 'schedule_type'. The 'milestone_level' field should have a value of 199, which represents the "approve finish project milestone". The 'schedule_type' field should have a value of 'BL', indicating that the schedule is a baseline schedule.

To resolve this issue, ensure that your baseline schedule includes the "approve finish project milestone" with the correct 'milestone_level' and 'schedule_type' values.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to ensure that the baseline schedule for the EVMS construction project includes the 'approve finish project' milestone. The 'approve finish project' milestone is a critical point in the project timeline that signifies the completion and approval of the project. 

The importance of this check is high, as indicated by the severity level of 'CRITICAL'. Without this milestone, it would be impossible to accurately determine if the project has been completed as per the approved schedule. Therefore, this issue must be fixed before the data can be reviewed further.

## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS04_Sched_IsProjFinishMSMissingBL] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT 
    * 
  FROM 
    DummyRow_Get(@upload_ID)	
  WHERE
    (SELECT COUNT(*) FROM DS04_schedule WHERE upload_ID = @upload_ID AND schedule_type = 'BL' AND milestone_level = 199) = 0
)
```
