## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS04 Schedule |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1040117   |
| Summary     | Does this BL task have negative free float? |
| Error message | BL Task with float_free_days < 0. |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "BL Task With Negative Free Float" is designed to identify any instances in the DS04 Schedule where a Baseline (BL) task has a negative free float. 

The free float of a task, represented by the field 'float_free_days', is the amount of time that you can delay a task without delaying the project. More specifically, without delaying any successor task. If a task has a negative free float, it indicates that the task is behind schedule.

In this DIQ check, the system is looking for any tasks in the DS04 Schedule where 'float_free_days' is less than zero and where the 'schedule_type' is 'BL'. If such a task is found, it means that there is a Baseline task that is behind schedule, which is nonsensical in a project plan.

To resolve this issue, you should review the tasks in the DS04 Schedule, particularly those marked as 'BL', and ensure that none of them have a negative free float. If they do, you may need to adjust the task's schedule or dependencies to bring the free float back to zero or above.

## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed on the 'DS04 Schedule' table to check for any Baseline (BL) tasks that have a negative free float. The free float of a task refers to the amount of time that you can delay a task without delaying the project. More specifically, it's the amount of time that you can delay a task without delaying any successor task. If a task has a negative free float, it means that the task is or will be behind schedule.

The severity of this test is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity. This means that if any BL tasks are found with a negative free float, this issue must be fixed before the data can be reviewed. This is because a negative free float in a baseline, or project plan, doesn't make sense - you don't plan a project task to be delayed.

## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS04_Sched_DoesBLTaskHaveNegativeFreeFloat] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT
		*
	FROM
		DS04_schedule
	WHERE
			upload_id = @upload_ID
		AND float_free_days < 0 
		AND schedule_type = 'BL'
)
```
