## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS04 Schedule |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1040118   |
| Summary     | Does this BL task have negative total float? |
| Error message | BL Task with float_total_days < 0. |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "BL Task With Negative Total Float" is designed to identify any instances in the DS04 Schedule table where a Baseline (BL) task has a negative total float. 

The total float of a task, represented by the field 'float_total_days', is the amount of time that you can delay a task without delaying the project. More time means more flexibility. Therefore, a negative total float could indicate a problem with the project schedule, as it suggests that the task is or will be behind schedule.

This DIQ check is looking for instances where 'float_total_days' is less than 0 and where the 'schedule_type' is 'BL'. If such instances are found, it means that there are Baseline tasks with a negative total float, which could potentially delay the project. 

To resolve this issue, review the tasks in the DS04 Schedule table, particularly those marked as 'BL' in the 'schedule_type' field. Ensure that the 'float_total_days' for these tasks is a non-negative value. This will help maintain the integrity and quality of the project management data.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed on the 'DS04 Schedule' table to check for any Baseline (BL) tasks that have a negative total float. The total float of a task refers to the amount of time that you can delay a task without delaying the project. More specifically, it's checking for any instances where 'float_total_days' is less than zero. 

The importance of this check is high, as indicated by the severity level of 'CRITICAL'. Having a negative total float in the baseline doesn't make sense, as it implies a plan to be behind schedule. This likely means there is a data entry error somewhere that needs to be fixed.

## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS04_Sched_DoesBLTaskHaveNegativeTotalFloat] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT
		*
	FROM
		DS04_schedule
	WHERE
			upload_id = @upload_ID
		AND float_total_days < 0 
		AND schedule_type = 'BL'
)
```
