## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS04 Schedule |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1040210   |
| Summary     | Is your schedule data missing either the BL or FC schedule? |
| Error message | Zero rows found in either the BL or FC schedule (schedule_type = BL or FC). |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "Schedule Missing" is designed to verify the presence of both the Baseline (BL) and Forecast (FC) schedules in the DS04 Schedule table. 

An error message "Zero rows found in either the BL or FC schedule" indicates that either the Baseline or Forecast schedule data is missing. This is likely due to incomplete data entry or data import. 

The DIQ check is looking at the 'schedule_type' field in the DS04 Schedule table. The table should contain rows with both 'BL' and 'FC' data.

To resolve this issue, ensure that both the Baseline and Forecast schedule data are correctly entered or imported into the DS04 Schedule table. Each row of data should have a 'schedule_type' value of either 'BL' or 'FC'.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to ensure that the 'DS04 Schedule' table in the EVMS construction project management data contains the necessary schedule data. Specifically, it is checking for the presence of both the BL (Baseline) and FC (Forecast) schedule. 

The severity of this test is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity. This means that if either the BL or FC schedule is missing, the data cannot be reviewed or used for further analysis.

## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS04_Sched_IsScheduleMissing] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
  with Tasks as (
    SELECT distinct schedule_type
    FROM DS04_schedule
    WHERE upload_ID=@upload_id
  )
	SELECT 
    * 
  FROM 
    DummyRow_Get(@upload_ID)	
  WHERE
    (SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Tasks WHERE schedule_type = 'BL') = 0 OR
		(SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Tasks WHERE schedule_type = 'FC') = 0
)
```
