## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS04 Schedule |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1040141   |
| Summary     | Is this apportioned task missing an apportioned to task ID? |
| Error message | Apportioned task (EVT = J or M) missing ID in EVT_J_to_task_ID. |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "Missing Apportioned To Task ID" is designed to identify any instances in the DS04 Schedule table where an apportioned task is missing an associated task ID. 

An apportioned task is identified by an EVT value of either 'J' or 'M'. The task ID for these tasks should be recorded in the field 'EVT_J_to_task_ID'. This DIQ check is looking for any instances where this field is empty for apportioned tasks.

To resolve this issue, you should review the identified records and ensure that each apportioned task has a corresponding task ID recorded in the 'EVT_J_to_task_ID' field.
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to ensure that all apportioned tasks in the DS04 Schedule table have an associated 'Apportioned To Task ID'. The 'Apportioned To Task ID' is crucial as it links the apportioned task to the specific task it is apportioned to. Without this ID, it would be impossible to accurately track or manage the apportioned tasks, leading to potential issues in project management and data analysis.

The severity of this check is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity. This means that if this issue is not resolved, the data cannot be reviewed or used for further analysis.

## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS04_Sched_IsApportionedTaskMissingApportionedToID] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT
		*
	FROM
		DS04_schedule
	WHERE
			upload_id = @upload_ID
		AND ISNULL(EVT_J_to_task_ID,'')=''
		AND EVT IN ('J','M')
)
```
