## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS04 Schedule |
| Severity    | CRITICAL |
| Unique ID   | 1040209   |
| Summary     | Is your forecast schedule missing the approve start project milestone? |
| Error message | No row found for approve start project milestone (milestone_level = 100) in forecast schedule (schedule_type = FC). |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check titled "Approve Start Project Milestone Missing in Forecast" is designed to ensure that your forecast schedule, as recorded in the DS04 Schedule table, includes the approved start project milestone. 

This milestone is crucial for project planning and tracking, and its absence could lead to inaccurate forecasting and project management issues. The milestone is identified by a milestone level of 100. 

If this DIQ check fails, it means that there is no row in the DS04 Schedule table where the milestone level is 100 and the schedule type is 'FC' (indicating a forecast schedule). 

To resolve this issue, please ensure that your forecast schedule includes the approved start project milestone with the correct milestone level (100).
## Why do we check this?

This test is being performed to ensure that the 'Approve Start Project Milestone' is present in the forecast schedule of the DS04 Schedule table. The absence of this milestone could indicate a significant issue with the project's planning or tracking, as it is a crucial step in the project lifecycle. 

The severity of this test is marked as 'CRITICAL', which is the highest level of severity. This means that if the 'Approve Start Project Milestone' is missing, the data cannot be reviewed further until this issue is resolved. 
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS04_Sched_IsProjStartMSMissingFC] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT 
    * 
  FROM 
    DummyRow_Get(@upload_ID)	
  WHERE
    (SELECT COUNT(*) FROM DS04_schedule WHERE upload_ID = @upload_ID AND schedule_type = 'FC' AND milestone_level = 100) = 0
)
```
