# Negative NTE Delta Dollars

## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS10 CC Log Detail |
| Severity    | MAJOR |
| Unique ID   | 1100458   |
| Summary     | Is the NTE delta dollars value negative on this transaction? |
| Error message | NTE_dollars_delta < 0. |

## What causes this error?

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) test is designed to check for potential issues with records in the DS10 CC Log Detail table. The specific issue that this test looks for is a negative delta dollars value on the NTE (Not To Exceed) field. Ideally, NTE delta dollars value should always be kept positive or null (in which case it is set to zero), as a negative value might not be plausible in the context of the data, hence could lead to erroneous conclusions.

If the test finds rows in the table where the NTE_delta_dollars field is negative, it will return these rows as results of the test. This could be because of errors in data entry or calculation, or an inconsistency in the underlying business logic.

Therefore, the reason for the error message that you are receiving is likely that one or more records in the DS10 CC Log Detail table have a negative NTE_delta_dollars value. It is crucial to inspect and correct these records to maintain the overall data integrity of the database. 

The proper values for the NTE_delta_dollars field should be either a positive number or null. A detailed review and audit of the data ingestion process should be done to minimize such occurrences in the future and rectify the data already affected.
## Why do we check this?

This Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check is crucial for maintaining the integrity of the value of transactions by ensuring that the Not-to-Exceed (NTE) delta dollars value is not negative. A negative value may disrupt the payment and cost tracking process, which could potentially lead to financial losses or incorrect billing.

Additionally, the accuracy of financial data is essential for effective project management. It is necessary for accurate planning, forecasting, project control, and risk management. Clear, correct and comprehensive financial data enables project managers to make well-informed decisions. 

This DIQ check complies with DOE Order 413.3b which provides program and project management guidance for the acquisition of capital assets. It requires regular surveillance and validation of project data that includes, among other things, determining the validity of performance baselines, assessing forecasted completion costs, and reviewing risk management processes. 

Inaccurate or misleading data can lead to wrongful decisions or inadequate understanding of project performance and progress. It could potentially result in misguided resource allocation, poor risk assessment, and imprecise forecasting, all of which could impact project success. Similarly, maintaining data quality is in accordance with DI-MGMT-81861. This Departmental memo states that the contractor should establish a process to ensure that data artifacts are accurate, reliable and consistent. 

Therefore, conducting this DIQ check will ensure that the PARS/CPP data adheres to Departmental requirements and standards, which will support decision making, mitigate risks, and help ensure a successful project outcome.
## How can I fix this in my source data system

The Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) check in question is titled 'Negative NTE Delta Dollars'. The purpose of this test is to discover a negative value in the Not-to-Exceed (NTE) delta dollars field, which is not logically accurate in the context of the DS10 CC Log Detail dataset it refers to. NTE value in project management usually indicates the upper limit on the amount (in dollars) that can be spent on a certain transaction. As such, it should never be negative.

In Deltek Cobra, NTE is a type of transaction that is used when the contractor does not want to exceed a definite amount, so having a negative value in Delta dollars field might create inconsistencies in cost interpretation.

Here is how the contractor can update the problematic data entries:

1. Open the PARS DIQ Reports for the dataset DS10 CC Log Detail.
2. Look for all rows that return from this particular DIQ test, 'Negative NTE Delta Dollars'. These are the rows where the NTE Delta dollars value is less than zero.
3. For each one of these rows, note down the unique identifying details for the transaction. For instance, this could be the transaction date, description, code, etc depending upon which parameters uniquely identify a transaction in your dataset.
4. Proceed to open Deltek Cobra and navigate to your project for which the rows failed the DIQ check.
5. Look for the CC Log transaction data, corresponding to the unique identifiers from step 3.
6. Upon identifying the erroneous transactions, change the 'NTE Delta Dollars' value to a non-negative number. Typically, this should be the absolute value of the current entry if the negative sign was a result of a mistake in entering the data.
7. Save and close the project. 

Remember, every time you modify the data, it's important to re-run the DIQ test to ensure that the issue has been resolved. Continue this process until all the flagged rows have been corrected and the DIQ test comes out clean.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS10_CCLogDetails_AreNTEDollarsNegative] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT 
		*
	FROM 
		DS10_CC_log_detail
	WHERE 
		upload_ID = @upload_ID
	AND ISNULL(NTE_dollars_delta,0) < 0
)
```
