# Negative NCC

## Basic Information
| Key         | Value          |
|-------------|----------------|
| Table       | DS07 IPMR Header |
| Severity    | MAJOR |
| Unique ID   | 1070276   |
| Summary     | Is NCC negative? |
| Error message | NCC_dollars < 0. |

## What causes this error?

This test is specifically checking the "DS07 IPMR Header" table for entries where the "NCC_dollars" field is negative, hence the name "Negative NCC". "NCC" stands for "Net Cost Change", and represents the net change in a project's cost. 

The error, or warning, in this case appears when the value of the NCC_dollars field is less than zero. This is potentially problematic because it can indicate a miscalculation or error in the cost reporting for the project. In typical financial modeling for project management, it would be unusual or unexpected to have a negative net change in cost. 

Therefore, the values that are causing the issue here are any negative values in the "NCC_dollars" field. The acceptable values would be any number zero or greater. This takes the assumption that a project cannot have a negative cost change, as this may not line up correctly with the typical financial modeling of a construction project.

The resolution would involve either correcting the values in the dataset or reviewing the financial model to see if it accommodates for some scenarios where a negative cost change would be appropriate. In general, the aim of this test is to maintain data integrity by ensuring that the financial data within the database follows a logical and accurate model for project cost management. 

It is crucial to resolve these issues because it could potentially impact strategic decisions made based on the data, especially those related to budgeting or financial planning for the construction project.
## Why do we check this?

This Data Integrity and Quality (DIQ) checks on the 'DS07 IPMR Header' table to detect if there is any negative Net Cost Change (NCC), which should not normally occur in project management data. This check helps to monitor and control the project's financial status.

A negative NCC might imply that some resources have been improperly allocated or some costs have been incorrectly calculated for the project, which might provide an inaccurate picture of the project's financial health. Therefore, by running this DIQ check and identifying where the NCC is negative, inaccuracies can be spotted and rectified. 

According to the Department of Energy Order DOE O 413.3B, Program and Project Management for the Acquisition of Capital Assets, contractors are required to have procedures for validating performance measurement data used in their EVMS. These procedures should also highlight and resolve any issues regarding the accuracy, reliability and integrity of reported data. This DIQ check aligns with these requirements by helping to validate and maintain the integrity of the EVMS data.

The result of this check will be crucial for decision-making related to the management of the project, since it can affect cost and schedule forecasting. By implementing this check, we can ensure to have a proper and precise understanding of the project's financial performance, thus leading to improved project management and successful project completion.
## How can I fix this in my source data system

The test is designed to verify the integrity of Network Cost Component (NCC) data on the DS07 IPMR Header table in Deltek Cobra. If any records in the table show a negative value for the NCC, the test will signal a warning. Having a negative NCC value may indicate errors in cost calculation or data entry in your project's information. The process to correct this is as follows:

1. Open your PARS DIQ Reports. Check these reports and identify any records which failed the test specified above. Note the IDs of these records for future reference.
   
2. Now, open Deltek Cobra and navigate to the DS07 IPMR Header table. This table contains information related to the Integrated Program Management Report, including the Network Cost Component (NCC). 

3. Once you are in the DS07 IPMR Header table, search and locate the records that had failed the DIQ test using the IDs noted in step 1.

4. Check the 'NCC_dollars' field of these records. This particular field should hold the Network Cost Component values in dollars. If the NCC is negative, this likely means there is a mistake in the cost calculation.

5. Verify the cost calculations in the source data used to compute the NCC. You may need to refer back to project cost reports or directly consult with the financial team managing costs for your project.

6. After you have identified the issue causing the negative NCC value, correct the erroneous data. It could be wrong source data or an error in calculation. If necessary, update the cost data or fix the calculation method to ensure the NCC value is positive.

7. Once the necessary corrections are done in Deltek Cobra, save your changes.

By going through your DS07 IPMR Header table and correcting all negative NCC values, you should be able to resolve the data integrity issue highlighted by this test. If, after making your corrections, the test continues to fail, you may want to consider re-examining your project cost data or reaching out for additional technical support.
## Code

```sql

CREATE FUNCTION [dbo].[fnDIQ_DS07_IPMR_IsNCCLTZero] (
	@upload_id int = 0
)
RETURNS TABLE
AS RETURN
(
	
	SELECT 
		*
	FROM
		DS07_IPMR_header
	WHERE
			upload_ID = @upload_ID
		AND NCC_dollars < 0
)
```
